>> Kyle Simpson: Now I've
said this several times, so
let's get into what is a variable?
A variable is like a place in memory,
you know in your computer that
it has memory, what we call RAM.
And as a program is running,
it uses up and
it stores bits of information
all over the RAM.
And we don't know where it's being stored.
As a matter of fact, our program has
no idea where it's being stored.
The system, like our Mac OS or Windows,
it's figuring all that out for
the program.
And so we need a symbolic representation,
kind of like a pointer or
an address or whatever sort of metaphor
you want to have in your head.
It's a representation of some place in
memory, we don't really care where it is,
but we know that our number
42's gonna be over here.
And we know our string tile
is gonna be over here, and
the way we do that inside of our program
is we give those things useful names.
So we already saw this at
the outset in the intro, but
if I say var name = "Kyle Simpson", name
is going to point to somewhere in memory.
We don't know and we don't even really
care where but somewhere in memory and
it's gonna say, the equal sign there
is going to take that string and
put it in that place in memory.
And then later if we want to access that,
we would use the variable name
again, and it would give us that
string back, it would go and
find it in that particular place in
memory and give us the string back.
By the way,
just a quick note on operators.
You'll notice here we
have a single equals,
that's called the assignment operator.
And the single equals being used for
assignment is why we have to do
double equals for comparison.
I know some of you might have been
thinking, why don't we say a equal b, or
42 equal 42?
Well it's because we have the single
equals reserved for assignment in our
language and that's why we have double or
a triple equals two comparison.
Okay, sometimes trip people up where they
meant to do one equals and did two, or
they meant to do two and did one,
so something to be aware of.
Line 3 and 4 are slightly different than
line 1 because in line 1, I both said that
I needed a variable of the name name, but
I also assigned it a value, right away.
I said, go and create this location
in memory, and give it a value.
Line 3 does something slightly different.
It says, hey, go give me some area in
memory, but I don't know what I want to
put into it yet, so
just give it one of those empty values.
In particular, it's gonna give
it the undefined empty value.
And then later which just happens to be
line 4, we're gonna give it a value of 39.
That's how old I am at the time right now.
So we're putting in the value
39 into that location of memory
that is referred to in our program as age.
Line 6 does something very similar but
it takes an array of values.
And so, the program and the operating
system would have to go figure out a bunch
of places in memory, one for the quote
Brandon and one for quote mark and
for any other values
that were on that array.
And I've got a section
off all this memory and
then have one reference to
that whole section of memory.
And that reference is what
we call friends here.
Now line 8 does something interesting and
it's tempting to sort of skip over.
But before we even look
at the friends.length or
the friends with that square brackets
of 1, let's look at the console part.
Because that's also a variable,
console is referring to a special built in
thing that the JavaScript environment is
given by the browser or by Node.js or
wherever you're running your JavaScript,
it's given this thing called console.
It's a special area in memory with a very
special set of behaviors attached to it.
And when we do that dot operator there
on line 8, we're basically saying,
I want to go and access something in that
location at a certain name called log.
Well, log happens to be a method,
a function,
that can print things to
our developer console.
So we're actually saying go find console,
wherever that is in memory, and
then access it.
And then when we say .log, we're saying
now access something inside of it.
And then we are telling it what
to print to our console and
that's why it says friends.length,
we're saying go find the friends thing
which we know is an array from line 6.
Access something at that location which
isn't just like a position like zero or
one, but it's called the property.
Remember arrays are objects so
they can have properties.
And one of those special
properties is the length.
And that length would tell us that our
friends array at this time has two
element, it would say length 2.
So we're saying print whatever
that value is, and in this case,
it would print the value 2
to the developer console.
And then line 9, we do something
very similar, we say console.log.
And then we say friends[1].
Remember I've referred to the idea of
arrays and we declare an array like
line 6 with square brackets,
but when we say a variable and
a bracket immediately after that,
now we're saying access.
Line 6 is creating an array and line 9,
the bracket 1 there that's accessing
something inside of that, kind of like
the dot operator, but in this case,
we're accessing in the numeric position.
So friends[1], that's gonna return Marc,
not Brandon because
the array is zero indexed.
So these are how we refer to these values,
even though they're gonna be stored in
all kinds of random places in our memory.
These are how we refer to them and
keep track of them.
How we deal with them and
how we manage them inside of our programs.
A couple of other operators
that I just highlighted here,
you’ll notice on line 8 that parenthesis,
the open parenthesis,
that's also kind of technically
an operator and it means function call.
Actually parenthesis can be used, it's
another one of those overloaded cases.
It can be used to mean lots of things,
when it comes immediately after
a variable like log,
it means execute a function.
But it may show up in another operation
where it's just grouping things
together like, you might put
parentheses around 1 plus 3, and
then do something else with that
number like multiply it by 6.
And that's a grouping, and you may
remember that from math class, kind of
grouping things together to decide what
things happen before with other things.
So we have the parentheses operator.
And then up on line 1,
we have that little, bizarre semicolon.
What's the semicolon about?
Well, that's an also kind of an operator.
In this case,
it's not really doing anything to a value.
But it's just a part of the syntax that
is denoting that we finished a statement.
It's very similar to if I just used
an English sentence and then I finished,
and there would have been a period at
the end of the sentence when I finish.
And it's very similar in programming,
we are telling the program, I don't have
anything else to say in this particular
sentence, so this sentence is done.
Before we move on,
let's actually execute that code and
make sure you understand how those values
are being pulled out of that array.
So I've got it loaded up here in RunJS and
I click run.
And you'll notice that the first
console log statement says,
two because there are two
elements in the array,
that's the length of the array,
and friends[1] gives us Marc.
But if I were to change this array,
if I were to add my friend Alex to
the beginning of this list and
then we run the code again,
you notice now we are going to get three
as the length of the friends array.
And now friends[1] is pointing at Brandon
because we've changed the relative
position of the values in that array.
So again, this re-emphasizes why it's so
important for
you to be able to run the code and see
how it works, that concretely see means
in your head how JavaScript is actually
executing the things that you're writing.
Now there are other kinds of operations
that we're gonna do that can only be
done with actual variables.
So we talked about some operators
before like the plus and the minus, and
the exclamation mark, those can be done
even with values like you saw with
the number 42 or the Boolean false.
But we have some operators which can
only be used if there’s a variable.
And it’s because these operators
not only do something but
then they reassign,
they set a value back into that location.
So line 3, we have the ++ operator and
it is saying, go in increment,
add one to whatever is in age,
but also, you should reassign
that value right back to age.
So it would have been similar to if we
had said, age is equal to age plus 1.
Go compute whatever age plus 1 is,
which in this case would be 40.
And then assign that back
into the variable age.
Line 4 does something very similar except
instead of only incrementing by 1,
the += allows it to tell it
how much we wanna increment.
But because the equals is there,
you can see very clearly there's
gonna be a reassignment back.
So now,
we will have moved age from the value 39.
We will have reassigned
the value 40 on line 3.
And then on line 4, we will reassigned it
a new value which will be the value 42.
Which is why on line 6, when I just
have a variable reference there,
I’m just basically saying,
what’s in the variable at this place and
at this moment in the memory somewhere,
what value is in that location?
Well, it’s the value 42.